Products Stay organized with collections Save and categorize content based on your preferences. Release notes Documentation Architecture Center Training Catch up on the latest product launches, demos, and trainings from Next '23. Let's go. Cloud Storage Object storage for companies of all sizes Cloud Storage is a managed service for storing unstructured data. Store any amount of data and retrieve it as often as you like. Try Storage free Contact sales Go to console Contact sales New customers can use $300 in free credits to try Cloud Storage. Looking for something else? Check out personal, team, and block storage options. Product highlights Automatically transition to lower-cost storage classes Standard, nearline, coldline, and archive storage options Fast, low-cost, highly durable archive and backup storage Cloud Storage in a minute 1 min video Features Automatic storage class transitions With features like Object Lifecycle Management (OLM) and Autoclass you can easily optimize costs with object placement across storage classes. You can enable, at the bucket level, policy-based automatic object movement to colder storage classes based on the last access time. There are no early deletion or retrieval fees, nor class transition charges for object access in colder storage classes. Design an optimal storage strategy for your cloud workload Continental-scale and SLA-backed replication Industry leading dual-region buckets support an expansive number of regions. A single, continental-scale bucket offers nine regions across three continents, providing a Recovery Time Objective (RTO) of zero. In the event of an outage, applications seamlessly access the data in the alternate region. There is no failover and failback process. For organizations requiring ultra availability, turbo replication with dual-region buckets offers a 15 minute Recovery Point Objective (RPO) SLA. Fast and flexible transfer services Storage Transfer Service offers a highly performant, online pathway to Cloud Storage—both with the scalability and speed you need to simplify the data transfer process. For offline data transfer our Transfer Appliance is a shippable storage server that sits in your datacenter and then ships to an ingest location where the data is uploaded to Cloud Storage. VIDEO Introducing Google Cloud’s Transfer Appliance 02:54 Default and configurable data security Cloud Storage offers secure-by-design features to protect your data and advanced controls and capabilities to keep your data private and secure against leaks or compromises. Security features include access control policies, data encryption, retention policies, retention policy locks, and signed URLs. You make the rules with authentication controls for Cloud Storage Leading analytics and ML/AI tools Once your data is stored in Cloud Storage, easily plug into Google Cloud’s powerful tools to create your data warehouse with BigQuery, run open-source analytics with Dataproc, or build and deploy machine learning (ML) models with Vertex AI. Start querying Cloud Storage data with BigQuery Object lifecycle management Define conditions that trigger data deletion or transition to a cheaper storage class. Object Versioning Continue to store old copies of objects when they are deleted or overwritten. Retention policies Define minimum retention periods that objects must be stored for before they’re deletable. Object holds Place a hold on an object to prevent its deletion. Customer-managed encryption keys Encrypt object data with encryption keys stored by the Cloud Key Management Service and managed by you. Customer-supplied encryption keys Encrypt object data with encryption keys created and managed by you. Uniform bucket-level access Uniformly control access to your Cloud Storage resources by disabling object ACLs. Requester pays Require accessors of your data to include a project ID to bill for network charges, operation charges, and retrieval fees. Bucket Lock Bucket Lock allows you to configure a data retention policy for a Cloud Storage bucket that governs how long objects in the bucket must be retained. Pub/Sub notifications for Cloud Storage Send notifications to Pub/Sub when objects are created, updated, or deleted. Cloud Audit Logs with Cloud Storage Maintain admin activity logs and data access logs for your Cloud Storage resources. Object- and bucket-level permissions Cloud Identity and Access Management (IAM) allows you to control who has access to your buckets and objects. Storage options Standard storage Storage for data that is frequently accessed ("hot" data) and/or stored for only brief periods of time. "Hot" data, including websites, streaming videos, and mobile apps. Nearline storage Low cost, highly durable storage service for storing infrequently accessed data. Data that can be stored for 30 days. Coldline Storage A very low cost, highly durable storage service for storing infrequently accessed data. Data that can be stored for 90 days. Archival storage The lowest cost, highly durable storage service for data archiving, online backup, and disaster recovery. Data that can be stored for 365 days. Storage type Description Best for Standard storage Storage for data that is frequently accessed ("hot" data) and/or stored for only brief periods of time. "Hot" data, including websites, streaming videos, and mobile apps. Nearline storage Low cost, highly durable storage service for storing infrequently accessed data. Data that can be stored for 30 days. Coldline Storage A very low cost, highly durable storage service for storing infrequently accessed data. Data that can be stored for 90 days. Archival storage The lowest cost, highly durable storage service for data archiving, online backup, and disaster recovery. Data that can be stored for 365 days. Learn more about storage classes. How It Works To use Cloud Storage, you’ll first create a bucket, a basic container that holds your data in Cloud Storage. You’ll then upload objects into that bucket—where you can download, share, and manage objects. View documentation What is Cloud Storage? (2:05) Common Uses Backups and archives Use Cloud Storage for backup, archives, and recovery Cloud Storage's nearline storage provides fast, low-cost, highly durable storage for data accessed less than once a month, reducing the cost of backups and archives while still retaining immediate access. Backup data in Cloud Storage can be used for more than just recovery because all storage classes have ms latency and are accessed through a single API. Learn more about nearline storage Media content storage and delivery Store data to stream audio or video Stream audio or video directly to apps or websites with Cloud Storage’s geo-redundant capabilities. Geo-redundant storage with the highest level of availability and performance is ideal for low-latency, high-QPS content serving to users distributed across geographic regions. Learn more about geo-redundant storage Learn how to set up a Media CDN, for planet-scale media delivery Tutorial: Design for scale and high availability Google Cloud Skills Boost: Storing Image and Video Files in Cloud Storage - Python Unlock infinite capacity and innovation Cloud Storage’s multi-regional performance and availability powers the world’s biggest media and entertainment companies. Build a hybrid render farm using Cloud Storage Create a virtual workstation with Cloud Storage Learn how Vimeo uses multi-regional storage for fast, resumable uploads Data lakes and big data analytics Create a data lake for analytics Develop and deploy data pipelines and storage to analyze large amounts of data. Cloud Storage offers high availability and performance while being strongly consistent, giving you confidence and accuracy in analytics workloads. Learn more about data lakes using Cloud Storage Run Apache Hadoop or Apache Spark on data with data connector Google Cloud Skills Boost: Modernizing Data Lakes and Data Warehouses with Google Cloud Google Cloud Skills Boost: Google Cloud Big Data and Machine Learning Fundamentals Machine learning and AI Plug into world class machine learning and AI tools Once your data is stored in Cloud Storage, take advantage of our options for training deep learning and machine learning models cost-effectively. Learn about our AI Infrastructure Watch how to store data for machine learning Start using Vertex AI with your stored data Nuro powers its autonomous vehicles' rapid decision-making with Cloud Storage Host a website Hosting a static website with Cloud Storage If you have a web app that needs to serve static content or user-uploaded static media, using Cloud Storage can be a cost-effective and efficient way to host and serve this content, while reducing the amount of dynamic requests to your web app. Learn how to host a website with Cloud Storage Tutorial: Configure a Cloud Storage bucket to host a static website for a domain you own Video: 3 ways to run scalable web apps on Google Cloud Pricing How Cloud Storage pricing works Pricing for Cloud Storage services is based on storage class (location and operation fees apply), network egress, and network usage. Always Free usage All customers get 5 GiB of US regional storage free per month, not charged against your credits. Learn more about Always Free limits. Free Storage class Standard Storage Best for frequently accessed ("hot" data) and/or stored for only brief periods of time. Starting at $.02 per GiB per month Nearline Storage Best for service for storing infrequently accessed data. Starting at $.01 per GiB per month Coldline Storage Best for storing infrequently accessed data. Starting at $.004 per GiB per month Archival Storage Best for data archiving, online backup, and disaster recovery. Starting at $.0012 per GiB per month Network egress and special service rates Network egress within Google Cloud Applies when moving, copying, accessing data in Cloud Storage or between Google Cloud services. Check your network product for pricing information. General network usage General network usage applies for any data that does not fall into one of the above categories or the Always Free usage limits. Ranges from $0.12-$0.20 based on monthly usage How Cloud Storage pricing works Pricing for Cloud Storage services is based on storage class (location and operation fees apply), network egress, and network usage. Service usage and type Description Price (USD) Always Free usage All customers get 5 GiB of US regional storage free per month, not charged against your credits. Learn more about Always Free limits. Free Storage class Standard Storage Best for frequently accessed ("hot" data) and/or stored for only brief periods of time. Starting at $.02 per GiB per month Nearline Storage Best for service for storing infrequently accessed data. Starting at $.01 per GiB per month Coldline Storage Best for storing infrequently accessed data. Starting at $.004 per GiB per month Archival Storage Best for data archiving, online backup, and disaster recovery. Starting at $.0012 per GiB per month Network egress and special service rates Network egress within Google Cloud Applies when moving, copying, accessing data in Cloud Storage or between Google Cloud services. Check your network product for pricing information. General network usage General network usage applies for any data that does not fall into one of the above categories or the Always Free usage limits. Ranges from $0.12-$0.20 based on monthly usage Learn more about Cloud Storage pricing. View all pricing details. Pricing calculator Estimate your monthly Cloud Storage charges, including cluster management fees. Estimate your costs Custom quote Connect with our sales team to get a custom quote for your organization. Request a quote Start your proof of concept New customers get $300 in free credits Try Cloud Storage free Get a quick intro to using Cloud Storage View guide Create a Cloud Storage bucket in 4 mins Get started Introduction and Best Practices for Cloud Storage Watch video How to name buckets Read guide Business Case Explore how companies are using Cloud Storage Vimeo is delivering more high-quality videos than ever while reducing costs Vimeo replaced its servers for accepting video uploads with Cloud Storage, fronted by the Fastly edge cloud to help ensure regional routing and low-latency, high-throughput connections for Vimeo’s publishers. Multi-regional Cloud Storage offers fast, resumable upload capability that helps make for better user experience. Read customer story Related Content Mixpanel maintains excellent performance and reliability while keeping its engineers focused on innovation Robust building blocks that exist on top of core data storage, computing, and network services help take away much of the backend hassle on the way to new product creation RedSalud meets telemedicine challenges by implementing SAP for Google Cloud Trusted by top retailers Target and Carrefour. Used by top financial institutions KeyBank, PayPal, and Commerzbank. Powering top autonomous vehicle companies Cruise and Nuro. FAQ No. For personal storage options, including photos, device backup, VPN, and more, visit Google One. Cloud Storage is a service for storing objects in Google Cloud. An object is an immutable piece of data consisting of a file of any format. You store objects in containers called buckets. All buckets are associated with a project, and you can group your projects under an organization. Learn more about other Google Cloud storage products, including block storage, data transfer, and file storage. Other inquiries and support Billing and troubleshooting Ask the community