Home Stay organized with collections Save and categorize content based on your preferences. Announcing AlloyDB AI for building generative AI apps with PostgreSQL. Google Cloud databases Google Cloud databases provide you the best options for building enterprise generative AI apps for organizations of any size. Get started for free Contact sales Contact sales Go to console Industry-leading platform for innovation Google Cloud provides an intelligent, open, and unified data and AI cloud to support your gen AI future. Revolutionize customer experiences with operational databases you know and love, in virtually any environment whether in the cloud or on-premises. And with Duet AI, you can now simplify database tasks, making you more productive. 3:03 Learn about our newest database Gartner names Google Cloud a leader Google named a Leader in the 2022 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Cloud Database Management Systems. From MySQL to NoSQL Learn how Bitly migrated 80 billion rows of their core link data from a self-managed MySQL database to Bigtable. B4A migrates to AlloyDB Learn how B4A saw catalog query performance accelerate by 90% upon migrating to AlloyDB for PostgreSQL. Databases that fit your needs Database type Google Cloud Service Use case examples Relational Cloud SQL Fully managed MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQL Server. Simplify migrations to Cloud SQL from MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Oracle databases with Database Migration Service. Set up easy-to-use, low-latency database replication with Datastream. CRM ERP Ecommerce and web SaaS application AlloyDB for PostgreSQL PostgreSQL-compatible database service for your most demanding enterprise workloads. AlloyDB Omni is a downloadable edition designed to run anywhere—in your datacenter, your laptop, and in any cloud. Use AlloyDB AI to easily build enterprise generative AI applications. Simplify migrations to AlloyDB with Database Migration Service. Heterogenous migrations Legacy applications Enterprise workloads Hybrid cloud, multicloud, and edge Cloud Spanner Cloud-native with unlimited scale, global consistency, and up to 99.999% availability. Processes more than 3 billion requests per second at peak. Create a 90-day Spanner free trial instance with 10 GB of storage at no cost. Migrate from databases like Oracle or DynamoDB. Gaming Retail Global financial ledger Supply chain/inventory management Bare Metal Solution for Oracle Lift and shift Oracle workloads to Google Cloud. Legacy applications Data center retirement BigQuery Serverless, highly scalable, and cost-effective multicloud data warehouse designed for business agility and offers up to 99.99% availability. Enable near real-time insights on operational data with Datastream for BigQuery. Multicloud analytics Real-time processing Built-in machine learning Key-value Cloud Bigtable Highly performant, fully managed NoSQL database service for large analytical and operational workloads. Offers up to 99.999% availability. Processes more than 5 billion requests per second at peak, and with more than 10 Exabytes of data under management. Learn how to migrate from HBase or Cassandra. Personalization Adtech Recommendation engines Fraud detection Document Firestore Highly-scalable, massively popular document database service for mobile, web, and server development that offers richer, faster queries and high availability up to 99.999%. Has a thriving developer community of more than 250,000 monthly active developers. Mobile/web/IoT applications Real-time sync Offline sync Firebase Realtime Database Store and sync data in real time. Mobile sign-ins Personalized applications and ads In-app chat In-memory Memorystore Fully managed Redis and Memcached for sub-millisecond data access. Memorystore for Redis Cluster is a fully managed service which can easily scale to terabytes of keyspace and tens of millions of operations per second. Caching Gaming Leaderboard Social chat or news feed Additional NoSQL MongoDB Atlas Global cloud database service for modern applications. Mobile/web/IoT applications Gaming Content management Single view Google Cloud Partner Services Managed offerings from our open source partner network, including MongoDB, Datastax, Redis Labs, and Neo4j. Leverage existing investments Cloud SQL Fully managed MySQL, PostgreSQL, and SQL Server. Simplify migrations to Cloud SQL from MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Oracle databases with Database Migration Service. Set up easy-to-use, low-latency database replication with Datastream. CRM ERP Ecommerce and web SaaS application AlloyDB for PostgreSQL PostgreSQL-compatible database service for your most demanding enterprise workloads. AlloyDB Omni is a downloadable edition designed to run anywhere—in your datacenter, your laptop, and in any cloud. Use AlloyDB AI to easily build enterprise generative AI applications. Simplify migrations to AlloyDB with Database Migration Service. Heterogenous migrations Legacy applications Enterprise workloads Hybrid cloud, multicloud, and edge Cloud Spanner Cloud-native with unlimited scale, global consistency, and up to 99.999% availability. Processes more than 3 billion requests per second at peak. Create a 90-day Spanner free trial instance with 10 GB of storage at no cost. Migrate from databases like Oracle or DynamoDB. Gaming Retail Global financial ledger Supply chain/inventory management Bare Metal Solution for Oracle Lift and shift Oracle workloads to Google Cloud. Legacy applications Data center retirement BigQuery Serverless, highly scalable, and cost-effective multicloud data warehouse designed for business agility and offers up to 99.99% availability. Enable near real-time insights on operational data with Datastream for BigQuery. Multicloud analytics Real-time processing Built-in machine learning Cloud Bigtable Highly performant, fully managed NoSQL database service for large analytical and operational workloads. Offers up to 99.999% availability. Processes more than 5 billion requests per second at peak, and with more than 10 Exabytes of data under management. Learn how to migrate from HBase or Cassandra. Personalization Adtech Recommendation engines Fraud detection Firestore Highly-scalable, massively popular document database service for mobile, web, and server development that offers richer, faster queries and high availability up to 99.999%. Has a thriving developer community of more than 250,000 monthly active developers. Mobile/web/IoT applications Real-time sync Offline sync Firebase Realtime Database Store and sync data in real time. Mobile sign-ins Personalized applications and ads In-app chat Memorystore Fully managed Redis and Memcached for sub-millisecond data access. Memorystore for Redis Cluster is a fully managed service which can easily scale to terabytes of keyspace and tens of millions of operations per second. Caching Gaming Leaderboard Social chat or news feed MongoDB Atlas Global cloud database service for modern applications. Mobile/web/IoT applications Gaming Content management Single view Google Cloud Partner Services Managed offerings from our open source partner network, including MongoDB, Datastax, Redis Labs, and Neo4j. Leverage existing investments Ready to get started? Let’s solve your challenges together. See how tens of thousands of customers are building data-driven applications using Google's data and AI cloud. Learn more Make your database your secret advantage with Google Cloud. Read the whitepaper Looking for technical resources? Explore our guides and tutorials. See how our customers saved time and money with Google Cloud databases Blog post How Renault migrated 70 applications from Oracle databases to Cloud SQL for PostgreSQL 5-min read Case study How Credit Karma uses Bigtable and BigQuery to store and analyze financial data for 130 million members 5-min read Blog post Discover how Spanner’s scalability and reliability enabled Google Photos to achieve 10x growth 5-min read Blog post Sabre chose Bigtable and Cloud Spanner to serve more than 1 billion travelers annually 5-min read Blog post How ShareChat built a scalable data-driven social media platform with Google Cloud 6-min read keyboard_arrow_left keyboard_arrow_right See all customers Take the next step Start building on Google Cloud with $300 in free credits and 20+ always free products. Get started for free Take the next step Start your next project, explore interactive tutorials, and manage your account. Contact sales Need help getting started? Contact sales Work with a trusted partner Find a partner Continue browsing See all products Need help getting started? Contact sales Work with a trusted partner Find a partner Get tips & best practices See tutorials